---
title: "Bruh, the Set Up was Wild!"
date: 2025-03-15
layout: post
---

Setting up this blog was tricky. I'm not mad about that, it was a big 'ol learning experience and a nice way to spend an afternoon. Ok, maybe I'm the only one that thinks troubleshooting/learning GitHub Pages/Jekyll is an afternoon spent well.

I'm going to cover the problems I had in this post, for the most part I'll reference files in the [repo that stores this blog](https://github.com/MrAnxiety-Code/mranxiety-code.github.io) and do a lot of collating of my commit messages into one place. But if you wanted to just read the commits, go for it. They are all in ```index.md``` and ```_config.yaml```.

## The problem that kicked it all off
The landing page had the title displayed twice. The title was something like "Mr Anxiety's blog" which would then appear on the nav bar as well.

Jekyll uses it's own [syntax](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/front-matter/) to make websites like this. I looked at it thinking that my problem was just not understanding the syntax. It kind of helped but not really.

So instead I went down a rabbit hole of:
- Commenting out YAML 
- Adding a layout property
- Removing the title property completely
- Adding title back in and making it blank with ```" "``` then later making it ```NULL```

The actual answer came to me when I went looking for examples of how other people set up their blogs. The [GitHub Examples](https://github.com/collections/github-pages-examples) are really complex and I couldn't find the repo to look at how they tick. So off to Google I went and reddit answered with this one from [Jonathon Belotti](https://thundergolfer.com/) and the [repo](https://github.com/thundergolfer/thundergolfer.github.io) for the site. There I could see how they had their ```_config.yaml``` set up which gave me some inspiration for my own. But I also saw that they were using a different theme and one of my thoughts was the the issue was related to how the theme styles the page.

The theme I'm using is [Minima](https://github.com/jekyll/minima/tree/master). I'm not married to this theme. In fact, I'm not wild about how bright it is but more on that later. I only picked it because it's the recommended theme in the [GitHub Skills course](https://github.com/skills/github-pages) for GitHub Pages. So I went looking for themes listed on the [Jekyll documentation](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/themes/). The link to the theme repos on [GitHub](https://github.com/topics/jekyll-theme) was where I looked around. I was not thrilled with what I was finding. Not that it would have mattered if I did find one I liked as [GitHub pages only supports a few](https://pages.github.com/themes/), which I only discovered this page exists while retracing my steps during this write up. I should go looking over those themes and see if there's one I like. But that's a neek weekend project. I got this thing working and I'm not inclined to go down another rabbit hole for now.

So next, I wanted to find a site with the same theme as mine. My thinking being their configuration should also be similar to how I'd want mine. That led me to [this repo](https://github.com/toreanderson/toreanderson.github.io/tree/master) by Tore Anderson. Bingo! They posted a workaround to an [issue](https://github.com/jekyll/minima/issues/196#issuecomment-515774461) that was exactly what I was looking for. But the problem was the fix didn't work for me right out of the box. That was because I didn't know I did not need to add any extra text to ```index.md``` which I did because GitHub skills says _"add some content to index.md"_ and me not totally knowing how it all worked yet just blindly followed along. Tore's repo set me straight. One commit later and my problem was solved.

## Ok, But Now you Gotta Configure Everything Else Mate
The good thing about going down all those rabbit holes is that it did give me a better understanding of how Jekyll wants you to layout your blog using GitHub Pages to host it. Again, Tore's blog had some cool stuff like social links and a footer that didn't have redundant text. So some more tinkering in ```_config.yaml``` sorted that out. The issue post that I'd found was for the Minima theme repo. Looking at their ```README.md``` showed all the features of their V3 release. So I started putting some of it into my repo like social links and dark mode.

I _really_ wanted dark mode. But my build kept failing. I was consistently getting this error:
```
Error: (/github/workspace/./_config.yaml): found character that cannot start any token while scanning for the next token at line 8 column 1
```
Which was the line ```skin:dark``` in the Minima specific configurations I was making to ```_config.yaml```. My first thought was that I was entering in the syntax wrong or that the skin feature was in the wrong spot and I needed to change the load order. Even after moving it to the bottom, build fail. Then I thought that maybe it's something earlier that's freaking it out and it's only finally crashing at line 8. My suspect was the property for ```description:``` having  a single quote in it. I'd spent several hours wrestling with single quotes in SQL the night before. So with fresh trauma, I handled that mofo to be sure that single quote is not effecting a thing.

Build error.

Alright, now I'm stuck. Maybe it's a bug caused by a recent update? I still had the Minima repo open, so I go to the issues tab and find someone else with the [same-ish issue](https://github.com/jekyll/minima/issues/858). Their blog was doing weird stuff because of ```skin:dark``` although they got it to work. The big reveal was another [comment](https://github.com/jekyll/minima/issues/858#issuecomment-2718451094) in that issue. They linked to the ```_config.yaml``` in the Minima repo, specifically to the section with this comment:
```
 # As of November 2023, GitHub Pages still uses Minima 2.5.1 (https://pages.github.com/versions/).  
 # If you want to use the latest Minima version on GitHub Pages, use the following setting and  
 # add a line comment on "theme: minima" above. 
 #remote_theme: jekyll/minima 
```
Knowing that, I looked up the other branches for Minima and found the one used by GitHub Pages, conveniently called [gh-pages](https://github.com/jekyll/minima/tree/gh-pages), and then the [2.5-stable](https://github.com/jekyll/minima/tree/2.5-stable) branch which had the ```README.md``` for that version and yep, all the cool stuff I wanted was in V3. It was the saddest [commit](https://github.com/MrAnxiety-Code/mranxiety-code.github.io/commit/30bc9720c677d8f6f8479834d84f0409083b0217) I wrote, but the build passed and the site deployed.

I flirted with updating to V3 but I don't know enough about how GitHub pages plays with ```remote_theme:``` to make it work. But on the bright side, I did learn how to revert to a previous commit.

I learned a lot over the course of the afternoon about GitHub pages, jekyll, the minima theme, and even GitHub itself. The whole point of this blog was to document some of the things I'm learning by hosting my Javascript web projects. I guess it's fitting that setting it up also be a learning exercise in and of itself.

One last thing: Writing this whole blog post in markdown in VS Code was fun. But boy, I _really_ miss spellcheck.